This is one of multiple videos discussing static routing.
So notice what happens now when we configure a default route to 10 1 1 1.
But specify an admin distance of say 100 and that should be the next top product 10 1 1 2 with an admin
distance of 100.
So do show IP raat.
We've got a raft in the drawing table.
Notice the admin distance is 100 whereas previously
the admin distances of the Roths was 1.
So one shown here the router can ping the loopback of Rodda five.
And when we trace to the loopback it's going via Rodek to.
And that should be expected because that's the route that we have in the running table.
What happens when we add a static route to router 3 but with an admin distance of 150 and let's add
Rodda 4 with an admin distance of 200 What do you think the running table is going to look like.
So show IP route only shows the route to brought it to you.
And that's because it's got to the lowest at Ministry of distance.
So when we trace to the loopback of route of 5 it's going via Radha to the running config shows us that
there are three routes in the running config.
So this is a way to implement a preferred path which is route to and then a backup path and a second
backup.
What will happen now is rodder will be used as the primary path because that's the only road in the
writing table.
But when we shut down an interface down cell shut down gigabit 00 the link to rodded to we can see the
interface has gone down.
When we top show IP route.
Notice the raft has changed to go to 10 1 to 2 has a higher Ministry of distance but thats a lower than
the ministry of distance via radio 4.
So now traffic it goes via router 3 again in the running config weve got three routes and this route
is the route being used at the moment.
Because the linkage to the next top route it is down because the interface is massively down.
So the Rodek can see that this IP address is an interface that's down and that IP addresses in the same
subnet as the IP address.
So that route is removed from the writing table.
And this route is put in to the writing table.
So again the static route via 10 1 to 2 is in the writing table.
Now if we shut gigabit the zero or one down
what we should see is that the third route appears in the writing table and it does traffic is now going
to go via Rodda for what it does it goes to 10 1 3 2 and then on to write a five.
So again we can still paying the loopback of wrote a 5 but the traffic is taking a different path.
Notice the admission of distance of this road is two hundred.
The next top is 10 1 3 2.
So we now know Schutt gigabit 0 1.
In other words enable that interface what we should see is that the path changes and it has it's now
going via 10 1 to 2 because that has a lot of distance.
And if we know Shatru gigabit 00
traffic should switch back to 10 1 1 to which it has so administered distances in this way are often
used to select a primary path backup path and an alternate backup path.
This could be an less link.
This could be a good internet connection and this could be a not so good internet connection.
So we've got three paths to get to our destination and we'll choose the primary path first.
But if it's not available then this path and if that's not available then we'll choose the path M.Tech
routes don't work that well in that they will only be removed from the writing table if the local interface
goes down.
So as an example if I shut down this link traffic would still go via rodded too and would end up in
a black hole.
So as an example all say and a thousand pings to Rodda five before I start that ping
I'll get routed to ready.
So keep it.
0 1 notice we are pinging but if I shut that interface down the pings start failing.
We get an unreachable message wrote a one configured restudy Grotz doesn't realize that there's a problem
elsewhere in the network.
So it's still forwarding traffic to 10 1 1 2 even though that link is down wrote it to in this case
is running a running protocol.
So it can dynamically change its behavior but a broad with steady growth doesn't do that.
And that's a reason why you run dynamic writing protocols.
So when the interface came up again Rodda one was able to ping wrote a five start that again and shut
the interface down.
Now it doesn't dynamically shift traffic to an alternate path.
So that is a disadvantage of steady growth.
They are static by nature they don't dynamically change based on network conditions.
They'll only reroute if the local interface goes down.
But if these interfaces are up the road is a way of problems elsewhere in the network.
But if we were running a dynamic routing protocol it would dynamically adjust to network conditions
so dynamic routing protocol such as your job always P.F. and BGP are better than running static routes
when you want your network to dynamically adjust to network conditions.
I you found this video useful if it was of benefit to you please like it and please subscribe to my
YouTube channel.
I wish you all the very best.